A4 Common Analysis

Reflection Statement


Within 1 week delay on the plot of Arizona, Pima County – New Covid Cases with 7
days moving average by Date (With 7 days delay), this plot looks very similar to the plot
discussed above. The policy of wearing masks in retail business and restaurants began
to be put into place when the new cases tend to increase around May 2020. We do see
that the number of new cases dropped after implementing the mask policy starting in
June 2020. After several small peaks appeared, the number of new cases reached its
peak around Jan 2021. However, what was interesting was that there were no stricter
mask mandates placed on Prima County passed wearing them inside of businesses. I
would have thought that there would be stricter mandates due to the larger number of
people contacting the virus. Conversely, the number of new cases has seen a
significant drop from Jan 2021 to Jun 2021. Given the fact that the covid-19 vaccination
in the United States was given in the early Jan 2021, I speculate that this drop is due to
the population receiving vaccinations around that time period. After that, the number of
new cases has slowly risen. I guess it could be caused by the highly transmissible delta
variant. Overall, I did not see from this graph that wearing masks could help to prevent
the spread of coronavirus disease. There is nothing apparent about the plot that makes
me assume that it helped decrease the number of cases. I would have expected
significant drops in cases when the mandates were put into place and rises when
mandates were lifted.

In Pima County, there has been only one type of mandate implemented since the
beginning of the pandemic. I compared this to Wright County and found big differences
between the two counties with respect to covid outbreak. Based on our data, there were
not many people in Wright County that wear masks, but the number of covid cases was
significantly less than that of Prima County. Furthermore, Wright County did not show
signs of significant increase in covid cases. This could be due to the fact that the
population of Wright County is much smaller and potentially more spread out. This is an
argument against masks since it seems that the spread of the population is much more
effective than mask use.

The submitted graphs were generated using python libraries such as matplotlib. All
codes can be accessed through this link. I cleaned these three datasets by applying
some python build-in methods. The datasets were merged using the date and FIPS
column as keys.
